---
title: Build Agents with Microsoft 365 Copilot
description: Learn how to build agents by using the Agent Builder feature in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
author: jasonxian-msft
ms.author: jasonxian
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.date: 11/24/2025
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Build agents with Microsoft 365 Copilot

The Agent Builder feature in Microsoft 365 Copilot provides a simple interface that you can use to quickly build declarative agents by using natural language.

To get started, open the Microsoft 365 Copilot app. In the left pane, choose **New agent**.

## Use natural language to create your agent

Microsoft 365 Copilot allows you to create an agent using natural language. As you provide information conversationally, the agent's name, description, and instructions update to refine the agent's behavior. This experience provides a rich yet simple natural language way to create a customized agent. The natural language option saves time and helps you create more effective agents.

Provide a description of your agent in the chat window. Agent Builder automatically configures the agent for you based on your description. It also presents options for refinement and incorporates the refinements based on the options you select. For example, if you ask Agent Builder to include email attachments in summaries, it might present the following suggested refinements:

- Show only attachments from unread messages
- Summarize attachments by file type

You can converse with Agent Builder to update and refine your agent; the tool progressively updates the agent in each turn of the conversation, and saves changes to the agent's name, description, and instructions automatically.

Agent Builder also selects knowledge sources for you based on your description and responses to prompts. For example, if you build an agent that summarizes your daily emails, Agent Builder adds **My emails** as a knowledge source. You can also choose **Add content** in the chat box and search for or select [knowledge sources](copilot-studio-lite-knowledge.md) for your agent, and you can ask the tool to [add capabilities](#add-capabilities) to your agent.

When you're finished providing a natural language description of your agent's behavior and adding knowledge sources, you can view the agent's configuration on the **Configure** tab. The tool prepopulates the agent details for you, including:

- Name
- Description
- Instructions, including general guidelines, detailed step-by-step instructions, error handling, examples, and more
- Knowledge sources preselected based on your agent description
- Suggested prompts

After you create an agent, you can return to the agent and use the **Describe** tab to update it using natural language.

## Configure your agent manually

If you don't want to use natural language and let Agent Builder configure your agent for you, you can configure your agent's behavior manually in Agent Builder.

To configure your agent manually:

1. In Microsoft 365 Copilot, choose **New agent**.
1. On the New agent page, choose **Configure new agent**.
1. Agent Builder opens the **Configure** tab, where you can specify your agent's name, description, instructions, knowledge, and prompts.

The **Configure** tab provides the ability to view and edit information about the agent, giving you more control. 

:::image type="content" source="assets/images/copilot-studio-lite/agent-builder-configure.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Configure tab where users can manually configure their agent":::

The following table describes the fields that make up the agent.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
| Field               | Description |
| ------------------- | ----------- |
| **Name**            | The name of your agent. Use something that's descriptive and unique. Character limit of 30 characters. |
| **Icon**            | You can manually upload an image to represent your agent and give it a unique personality. <ul><li>Supported file types: PNG</li><li>Color icon resolution limit: 192x192 pixels</li><li>File size limit: 1 MB</li></ul> A PNG file with a transparent background works best due to the extra padding that is applied by default around your icon. |
| **Description**     | The description helps the Large Language Model (LLM) identify and use your agent for a specific task or situation. Make it as short, precise, and simple as possible. It's also displayed in the app file for use in the app catalog. Character limit of 1,000 characters. |
| **Instructions**    | Specific instructions to the LLM that you want to use to extend the capabilities of Microsoft 365 Copilot. They direct the behavior of the agent, including its tasks and how it completes them. If you're using the **Describe** tab, they're autogenerated for you. Character limit of 8,000 characters. For more information, see [Write effective instructions](declarative-agent-instructions.md).|
| **Knowledge**       | You can specify up to 20 knowledge sources (including SharePoint sites, folders, and files) or Copilot connectors. For details, see [Add knowledge sources](copilot-studio-lite-knowledge.md). |
| **Capabilities** | You can enhance the user experience of your declarative agent by adding capabilities. For details, see [Add capabilities](#add-capabilities). |
| **Starter Prompts** | Starter prompts help other users understand commonly supported scenarios by your agent. Each starter prompt comes with a name and description. There's no minimum number of starter prompts. |
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD033 -->

## Build from a template

Agent Builder in Microsoft 365 Copilot includes templates that you can use to build agents for specific use cases. The templates are preconfigured with a description, instructions, and prompts. You can use the templates as-is or customize them for your specific needs; for example, you can add more knowledge sources and capabilities. 

To use a template to build your agent:

1. In Microsoft 365 Copilot, select **New agent**.
2. On the New agent page, under **Start with a template**, choose the template you want to use. The agent is created for you automatically.
 
You can further refine your agent and add knowledge sources by using natural language on the **Describe tab**, or add your refinements manually on the **Configure** tab.

For more information, see [Agent templates](agent-templates-overview.md) or choose one of the templates on the **Describe** or **Configure** tab.

## Try your agent

The agent in the right pane is an ephemeral instance of the agent that shows up as a side-by-side screen within the authoring experience. You can use it to test the agent while you're creating or making updates to it. You can test your agent in the test pane to experience it in a similar way to end users. The test pane is enabled after the agent has name, description, and instructions. It behaves according to those instructions like a fully fledged agent, including the ability to respond to complex queries within its realm of specified knowledge. The agent updates during each turn of the conversation as you add new information by using natural language on the **Describe** or manually on the **Configure** tab in Agent Builder.

The agent you see in the test pane isn't created yet, so some features aren't available. For example, you can't use it to share prompts, provide feedback, or @mention other agents in the Microsoft 365 Copilot app. These features are available after you create the agent.

The test pane initially appears with suggested starter prompts, which when selected invoke the prompt and start the conversation. You can select **New Chat** to start a new conversation with the agent to view the starter prompts again.

## Add knowledge sources

To build context-aware agents, you can reference SharePoint items or any public websites. If your users have a Microsoft 365 Copilot add-on license, you can also:

- Ground your agents in personal work information, such as Teams chat messages and Outlook emails
- Use prebuilt [Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors](/graph/connecting-external-content-connectors-overview) that are enabled in your tenant.

You can choose knowledge sources to add to your agent in the chat box on the **Describe** tab if you're using natural language to create your agent, or you can select knowledge sources on the **Configure** tab.

For more information about the knowledge sources that are available, see [Add knowledge sources](copilot-studio-lite-knowledge.md).

> [!NOTE]
> The availability of knowledge sources and capabilities differs based on the user's license. For details, see [Agent capabilities for Microsoft 365 users](/microsoft-365-copilot/extensibility/prerequisites#agent-capabilities-for-microsoft-365-users).

## Add capabilities

In the **Capabilities** section of the **Configure** tab, you can choose to add the following capabilities to your agent:

- [Code interpreter](code-interpreter.md) - Solves complex math problems, analyze data, and generate visualizations. To add this capability, select the toggle next to **Create documents, charts, and code**.
- [Image generator](image-generator.md) - Generates images based on user prompts. To add this capability, select the toggle next to **Create images**.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Publish and manage agents](copilot-studio-lite-share-manage-agent.md)
