---
title: User Experience for Custom Engine Agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot
description: Custom engine agents are sophisticated conversational bots designed to harness the powerful capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) for seamless user interaction.
author: girliemac
ms.author: timura
ms.date: 01/15/2025
ms.topic: overview
---

# Custom engine agents user experience

Microsoft 365 Copilot is the user interface for AI. Custom engine agents are extensions of Microsoft 365 Copilot that users interact with to access organizational data to perform various tasks. Agents act as automated helpers within the Copilot platform.

The user experience (UX) in agents lies in its ability to provide intuitive, efficient, and contextually relevant interactions, enhancing user satisfaction and productivity. And the user interactions in custom engine agents include Zero prompts​, Suggested prompts​, Streaming responses​, and more. This article walks you through the UX features and the best practice that you should be aware when building agents.

## Zero prompts

Zero-prompt, also known as a conversation starter, is a feature in agents that helps users initiate interactions by providing predefined prompts at the beginning of a chat session.

:::image type="content" source="assets/images/agent-ux/zero-prompts.png" alt-text="A screenshot of zero prompt" border="false":::

## Suggested prompts​

Suggested prompts are designed to guide users toward the next best actions based on the conversation context, user profiles, and organizational preferences. These prompts replace the existing functionality of dynamic suggested actions and can also be displayed within Adaptive Card responses.

:::image type="content" source="assets/images/agent-ux/suggested-prompts.png" alt-text="A screenshot of Suggested prompt" border="false":::

## Streaming responses

Streaming responses are designed to enhance the user experience by providing visual real-time updates as the agent processes a request. This approach helps to prevent noticeable delays and makes interactions feel faster and more engaging.

:::image type="content" source="assets/images/agent-ux/streaming-response.png" alt-text="A screenshot of streaming response" border="false":::

You can implement streaming responses using the Teams AI library. For more information, read [Streaming messages](/microsoftteams/platform/bots/streaming-ux?context=/microsoft-365-copilot/extensibility/context).

## Citations

Citations are references to the sources of information used by the agent to generate its responses. These citations are crucial for ensuring transparency, credibility, and trustworthiness in the agent's interactions.

:::image type="content" source="assets/images/agent-ux/citations.png" alt-text="A screenshot of citations" border="false":::

## AI labels and sensitivity labels

AI labels indicate that a response is generated by AI. This transparency helps users distinguish between AI-generated and human-generated content, fostering trust in the agent's responses. These labels are automatically added to AI-generated messages using the Teams AI library.

:::image type="content" source="assets/images/agent-ux/ai-labels.png" alt-text="A screenshot of AI labels" border="false":::

Sensitivity labels mark responses or content that involve confidential or sensitive information. This helps maintain proper data handling and ensures that sensitive information is protected. Labels can be customized to reflect different levels of confidentiality, such as "Confidential" or "Highly Confidential," and are crucial for compliance and security.

:::image type="content" source="assets/images/agent-ux/sensitivity-labels.png" alt-text="A screenshot of sensitivity labels" border="false":::

For more information, read [Enhance AI-generated messages](/microsoftteams/platform/bots/how-to/bot-messages-ai-generated-content?context=/microsoft-365-copilot/extensibility/context)

## Feedback loop

Feedback loops are mechanisms that allow users to provide feedback on the agent's responses. This feedback helps refine and improve the agent's performance over time, ensuring that it becomes more accurate and useful.

:::image type="content" source="assets/images/agent-ux/feedback.png" alt-text="A screenshot of feedback loop" border="false":::

Learn more at [Feedback buttons](/microsoftteams/platform/bots/how-to/bot-messages-ai-generated-content?tabs=desktop%2Cbotmessage#feedback-buttons?context=/microsoft-365-copilot/extensibility/context).
